# 03.Web application security

## Common attacks performed against web applications

### Identification and authentication failure
- Identification = ability to identify a user uniquely.
- Authentication = ability to prove that the user is whom they claim to be.

The web application must confirm the user's identity and authenticate them before allowing them to use the system. However, there are several weaknesses such as:
- Allowing the attacker to use brute force, i.e., try many passwords, usually using automated tools, to find valid login credentials.
- Allowing the user to choose a weak password. A weak password is usually easy to guess.
- Storing the users’ passwords in plain text. If the attacker manages to read the file containing the passwords, we don’t want them to be able to learn the stored password.

### Broken access control
Access control ensures that each user can only access files (documents, images, etc.) which are only related to their role or work.

**Example of vulnerabilities related to access control incllude:**
- Failing to apply the principle of the least privilege and giving users more access permissions than they need. For example, an online customer should be able to view the prices of the items, but they should not be able to change them.
- Being able to view or modify someone else’s account by using its unique identifier. For example, you don’t want one bank client to be able to view the transactions of another client.
- Being able to browse pages that require authentication (logging in) as an unauthenticated user. For example, we cannot let anyone view the webmail before logging in.

### Injection
An injection attack refers to a vulnerability in the web application where the user can insert malicious code as part of their input. One cause of this vulnerability is the lack of proper validation and sanitization of the user’s input.

### Cryptographic failures
- Cryptography = Processe of encrypting and decrypting data.
- Encryption is done by translating cleartext into ciphertext,  which should be gibberish to anyone who does not have the secret key to decrypt it.  As a result, it ensures that no one can read the data without knowing the secret key.
- Decryption is the reveres process of encryption whereby it converts the ciphertext back into the original cleartext using the secret key.

**Examples of cryptographic failures include:**
- Sending sensitive data in clear text, for example, using HTTP instead of HTTPS. HTTP is the protocol used to access the web, while HTTPS is the secure version of HTTP. Others can read everything you send over HTTP, but not HTTPS.
- Relying on a weak cryptographic algorithm. One old cryptographic algorithm is to shift each letter by one. For instance, “TRY HACK ME” becomes “USZ IBDL NF.” This cryptographic algorithm is trivial to break.
- Using default or weak keys for cryptographic functions. It won’t be challenging to break the encryption that used 1234 as the secret key.

## Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR)
- A type of broken access control
- In general, an IDOR vulnerability can occur if too much trust has been placed on that input data. In other words, the web application does not validate whether the user has permission to access the requested object.
