# 06. Introduction to Digital Forensics

## Introduction
Forensics is the application of science to investigate crimes and establish facts. With the use and spread of digital systems, such as computers and smartphones, a new branch of forensics was born to investigate related crimes: computer forensics, which later evolved into, digital forensics.
In short, digital forensics is the **application of computer science to investigate digital evidence for a legal purpose.**

## Core issues to solve for digital forensics
- How should the police collect digital evidence, such as smartphones and laptops? What are the procedures to follow if the computer and smartphone are running?
- How to transfer the digital evidence? Are there certain best practices to follow when moving computers, for instance?
- How to analyze the collected digital evidence? Personal device storage ranges between tens of gigabytes to several terabytes; how can this be analyzed?

## Important aspects of digital forensics
- Proper search authority: **Investigators cannot commence without the proper legal authority.**
- Chain of custody: This is necessary to **keep track of who was holding the evidence at any time.**
- Validation with mathematics: Using a special kind of mathematical function, called a hash function, we can confirm that a file has not been modified.
- Use of validated tools: The **tools used in digital forensics should be validated to ensure that they work correctly.** For example, if you are creating an image of a disk, you want to ensure that the forensic image is identical to the data on the disk.
- Repeatability: The **findings of digital forensics can be reproduced as long as the proper skills and tools are available.**
- Reporting: The **digital forensics investigation is concluded with a report that shows the evidence related to the case that was discovered.**

## Digital forensic process
1. Acquire the evidence: Collect the digital devices such as laptops, storage devices, and digital cameras. (Note that laptops and computers require special handling if they are turned on; however, this is outside the scope of this room.)
2. Establish a **chain of custody**: Fill out the related form appropriately (Sample form). The purpose is to ensure that only the authorized investigators had access to the evidence and no one could have tampered with it.
3. Place the evidence in a secure container: You want to ensure that the evidence does not get damaged. In the case of smartphones, you want to ensure that they cannot access the network, so they don’t get wiped remotely.
4. Transport the evidence to your digital forensics lab.

Once at the lab,
1. Retrieve the digital evidence from the secure container.
2. Create a forensic copy of the evidence: The forensic copy requires advanced software to avoid modifying the original data.
3. Return the digital evidence to the secure container: You will be working on the copy. If you damage the copy, you can always create a new one.
4. Start processing the copy on your forensics workstation.

## Linux practical commands
- pdfinfo = used to read the metadata of the pdf file, such as title, subject, author, creator, and creation date. If Kali linux does not have the pdfinfo installed, we can install it by using **sudo apt install poppler-utils**
- exiftool = used to read and write metadata in various file types, such as JPEG images. If Kali linux does not have exiftool, we can install it using **sudo apt install libimage-exiftool-perl**. Exchangeable Image File Format (EXIF) contains the metadata of the image file such as Camera model / Smartphone model
Date and time of image capture, Photo settings such as focal length, aperture, shutter speed, and ISO settings and even the GPS coordinates embedded into the photo
