# 02. What is networking?
- Networks are simply things connected. In computing, networking is the same idea, just dispersed to technological devices.
- a network can be formed by anywhere from 2 devices to billions. These devices include everything from your laptop and phone to security cameras, traffic lights and even farming!

## What is the internet?
- The Internet is one giant network that is made up of many, many small networks within itself.
- The small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks or the Internet

## Identifying devices on the network
Devices use two methods to communicate in the network:
- Internet protocol address (IP address / logical address)
- Media access control address (MAC address / physical address)

### IP address
- There are two types of IP address (IPV4 and IPV6). An IPv4 address consists of four octets (32 bits) whereas IPv6 address consists of eight hextets (128 bits).
- IP addresses can change from device to device but cannot be active simultaneously more than once within the same network.

### MAC address
- Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address.
- The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon.
- MAC addresses can be faked or "spoofed" in a process known as spoofing. This spoofing occurs when a networked device pretends to identify as another using its MAC address. When this occurs, it can often break poorly implemented security designs that assume that devices talking on a network are trustworthy. 

### Ping (Internet message control protocol - ICMP)
- Ping is one of the most fundamental tools used to diagnose network communication issues.
- It does this by sending ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) echo packets and if the destination is reachable, it will send back an ICMP echo reply. ICMP is a layer 3 protocol.
- Pings can be performed against devices on a network, such as your home network or resources like websites. This tool can be easily used and comes installed on Operating Systems (OSs) such as Linux and Windows. 
